and welcome welcome to GUI and in web
browsers be with recall for the 2nd of
June yeah so let's jump straight the
first one is a topic about third-party
pinning integration in desktop and web
UI yeah I think most folks on this call
have heard this already but the
materials that we're sort of sketched
out at the pinning summit we've turned
those into high fidelity screens there's
two links there I can share my screen if
anybody wants to see them up to all
y'all yes please okay at which point
everything's gonna get all four key on
my screen but let's let's give this
let's give this a go all right
can y'all see that yes okay cool it's
tiny let's make it bigger so they sort
of sit in two different sitting two
different flows one is within the
settings screen the existing settings
screen where we've added a box at the
top for folks to integrate the pending
services of their choice the default is
just local pinning if you've got
absolutely nothing awesome it's bringing
me coffee
hooray thank you so the default you if
you don't have anything installed it's
just gonna be local pinning but you add
a service and it walks you through this
this is sort of an intermediate step
while we've still got a small number of
providers we want to showcase them and
may have them have big splashy icons and
to encourage more people to do so if one
of these is not depending service you
want you can add your own custom one
flow is pretty simple you give it a
nickname in case you have to in Fira
accounts you put in your secret key and
then auto upload there's a couple of
settings for that I'll go into it I'll
go into that in a sec you can visit the
pending services website presumably they
will have some nice instructions for you
revolve involving getting started on web
UI or desktop at that link goes to
something external if it's a custom
fitting service the exact same box
except you don't have a pretty icon and
you have to find the API endpoint
there's also a link here that says if
you want to make your custom pinning
service available to other people you
can do that that link would go to
somewhere on our Docs that talks about
how to integrate with our pinning API
which does not exist yet so say you've
got a bunch of them because you're a
super interesting person it says the
number of files you've got on them the
bandwidth used which is still a little
bit hand-wavy so these are your auto
upload settings either nothing's gonna
get auto uploaded or everything you pin
to your local node will get
automatically uploaded to that third
party or all your services will get
uploaded some more details
for how you edit it or remove it and
some little things like say you were
Auto uploading everything or you were
taught oh uploading anything and then
you say I want to upload on my pins you
can say oh do you want to upload it
first linking all of the pins that
you've currently got so there's a bunch
of and I no need to go into detail about
all of these but there's a bunch of
dialogues and such for exceptions so
that's how that lives in the settings
screen I can move on to the file screen
if y'all want to see ur even have any
questions
all right file screen is very tiny
oh this is settings
sorry I'm really not big fan of Sigma
ah I can move on and find it I'm in wet
web Sigma and I don't actually know how
to use web pigment ink to the chat ah
thank you very much
you
thank you all right so this guy's got
two flows because we're not completely
certain yet whether we want to allow
manual pinning of individual files but
say here we are sitting in the file
screen it looks fairly familiar but
you've got this somewhat amended pin
status column this is up to a little bit
of discussion right now if it's just
locally pin you just have a pin if it's
only cloud and cloud pinned if it's only
pin with a third party service which is
sort of a rare situation that's if you
back out of one of your automatic
preferences and then you unpin something
locally for example but then you've also
got things are pinned to both if you
want to learn more and then there's also
this is probably gonna be a little bit
tough to do but in the idea is floated
that you have the standard loading
animation while a file is being pinned
and that may not happen but that's the
affordance if it does say we have the
option for manual pinning you get this
the three dots menu you have a set
pinning menu option here rather than
just pin that gives you and if you have
more than one file selected you get set
pinning down here which currently don't
get at all this will tell you what
services you've already got and you
could manually override some of them so
and then also if you need to go to your
settings it'll take you back to settings
if something is strange if the
individual override of the global
pinning rules turns out to be too much
to deal with
then this just turns into the pin and
unpin menu as we know it and if you if
we've we've talked about this isn't set
in stone but if you were to just click
on this pin status and this would only
be in a world in which you don't have
the override enabled because there'd be
no other way to
find this information if you clicked on
the icon and pen status it would tell
you which services it's pinned with just
with checkmarks you can't do anything
and then there's just a couple of
different states in here some error
states if we can't query whether
something is successfully pinned we'll
add an overlay icon and a piece it's
snack bar that says go check your
settings and that is it so far I will
stop sharing my screen but there is and
fix the link there is also an epoch that
we've set up and github you can click on
that to see all the constituent parts
questions Rackley i have a question what
is a local peen signifier logo pin is
just that it's pinned at your local node
and local node being on a different
machine or being on the being on the
machine that you're using right now so
it would be the same the same visual
language that you're using in web UI on
desktop right now that the bad icon
present right now indicates that your
pins to the box that you're running Yui
on at the moment yes so basically on the
top right corner of web UI you got this
option to connect to an arbitrary API so
that those local pins are local to the
API you connected web UI to cost like
where do I live in ipfs desktop but some
people may just run web UI on its own
and it will still work I guess I was
assuming that whatever we see in my fast
it's it's not gonna be you see if you do
clean it then it seems like oh yeah so
that's in EM FS is implicitly pin and by
that we mean it won't be garbage
collected so it's like protected from
garbage collection but it's not
explicitly pinned so if you do API call
for like pinellas it won't show up there
and by which we are the remote pinning
services
and you are able to set up that remote
appearing service to automatically pin
everything in your m FS so you got a
copy of everything but maybe you don't
want to automatically backup everything
and you just want to manually mark
things here is where we like make those
local pins more useful cause in m FS if
you pin something it effectively does
nothing it just like shows us an
explicit pin but it's protected either
way but here this act of pinning and
that icon which was kind of useless
until now has a meaning if you set up
it's like a trigger for triggering
remote pin as well you can set up like
pinata to automatically pin stuff you
lock all the pins and you made that way
it's like a bit clearer visual language
of controlling what's pin and what's not
without going too deep and the two flaws
that Jessica shown on the file screen
the bottom one is like the super simple
the simplest one where you actually are
not able to override any pinning
strategy
apart from tweaking that on the settings
you can either like disable
automatically pin local when it's
locally pinned or in everything so it's
just
repurposing local pins as a trigger
which kind of like bridges the
onboarding like Lex moves down boarding
for users who are familiar with the idea
of pinning but may not fully understand
what's the cloud pin I I just fear it
might be a little complicated for people
to understand special events are like
two different kind of painting which one
to use when and what they do right and a
lot of that I think is going to rely on
very good guidance around the setup flow
for any of those new third-party
services we want to make sure that the
documentation we provide both um
they really good concise definition of
pinning on its own but then also
explains really what Lyle just said in
terms of why maybe introducing the
metaphor of using a local pin as a means
for doing more useful global or other
people accessible ends for example so
yeah it's gonna it's gonna hit a none
really going on mourning documentation
thanks for explaining oh geez that other
thing is mine too okay so we put out
that survey I guess it was about two
weeks ago that said how do you use IP FS
GUI tools we had 56 responses which is
cool that's enough to really kind of
trust the numbers but then also still be
able to get some usefulness out of the
individual verbatim responses um I went
over those to start with yesterday and
haven't dug too deep but a couple of
interesting points is kind of everyone
uses companion that's cool
desktop is a little bit more of an
all-or-nothing sort of scenario people
either said they used it often or never
which was interesting web UI peek sort
of in the middle of that range and then
CLI is fairly universally used this is
something interesting because this
aligns with what we have seen you know
what we're the the audience assumption
we're working on right now is that most
respondents they're saying there's about
seventy-two percent say they're using IP
FS for learning how to use IP FS and
hacking on ipfs but this it's
interesting because that motivation is
nearly a first-place tie with people who
are saying I'm using IP FS to publish
websites or share things share or
publish articles the share files was a
close third place this is something
interesting that I'll go through in a
second
will note that the best-loved features
are just like real super gooey stuff
visual indicators for network traffic
for bandwidths the number of nodes
connected in your bar in your browser
right click actions drag and drop stuff
like that so this I think at a very high
level is telling us
we're not gonna be able to align on a
very well-defined funnel if you want to
use sort of marketing language around
this to get people to learn more and
engage more with ipfs and that may be
what we need to be thinking about you
know we've been so focused on the single
hacker audience really it may be best to
start thinking about this as two or
three primary journeys or funnels and
base that on the core stakeholder types
that we had from the ecosystem audit
because there isn't really a clear
winner here and I think we're seeing
this in some of the collabs discussions
as well as we're starting to see not
super super super technical but
moderately technical integration
guidance or integration inspiration from
folks so so this is gonna get
interesting
you tentatively I might think that that
splits out along the hackers the the
very well informed business users and
then the people who just wanted to build
a website on ipfs now the the people who
were early adopters but who may not
necessarily care passionately about the
web for example is like oh this is a
cool new thing let me play with it um so
watch this space I will share more stuff
as I get more stuff but but it's
interesting just to see that there
really was not a clear winner in any of
this any questions on that I was
surprised that publishing website was
higher than sharing files I know alright
I mean they're pretty close they are
pretty close but it's very it's very
definitely publishing websites sharing
files and hacking and then there's like
everything else and that includes people
who responded that they're using IP FS
as part of its you know critical to
their open source project or it's
critical to their to their business
model or something like that which you
know I expected to see those low but
maybe not that low oh that was
interesting is this related to try to
figure out what to do with the web UI
first or like getting about video out of
that stop or is it summon some so it was
a it was a good set of focus questions
to to get you some an initial answer to
that question the answer to that
questions fairly murky even just based
on the distribution of who uses what
there's some some nuance and some of the
other questions where people are like oh
yeah I was I was very surprised to see a
lot less confusion around like
accidentally trying to open multiple
nodes for example then we were
suspecting and then the distribution of
the well we just flat-out asked them if
we worked out desktop what would that
make your life better worse or not care
that was sort of an interesting one too
so so we may we may actually want to
approach this more as just sort of
getting an idea of audience segmentation
at this point especially now that we're
sort of distracted with the pinnings
there is stuff but um but it does give
us it does give us some initial guidance
on both of those and answer your
question yes thank you okay
been talking for a long time can I stop
talking now okay cool thanks I can I can
pick it up I think this one is mine
so sub-domains a long time those big
maybe I'll quickly share my screen it
tells me that you can see something I
assume you can see something so yes
subdomain support for long LC IDs there
are two fixes I'm not sure if I
mentioned that on this call specifically
I'll mention it on the other calls so
long story short is the longer see IDs
do not fit within 63 character limit of
a single label for the end as compliant
the main name it's not a problem right
now but in the future when we decide to
switch to a longer hash by default or
when people start using edy 205 519 keys
which would probably at some point
switch go FS as a new default that will
go over when encoded to base 42 so the
ways to fix it involve either splitting
the label or changing the encoding and
each one has pros and cons splitting is
easy does you can simply take the CID
and add a dot after 63 characters the
problem is that causes problems at
subdomain gateways when people want to
provide TLS certificate there are no
multi-level certificates you can only
create a wild-card for a single level so
the problem is if you split you can only
get a third for
single-level so we looked at ways to fix
it one we want to provide TLS at a
public gateways at least for the
defaults so the default CA d produced by
Gorky Affairs and the default pure ID
which people will use for publishing hi
pianist websites at some point in the
future so the fixes are splitting longsi
IDs at 63 characters there's an upper
tier but I believe we got the consensus
that it's mostly waiting for being
merchants shipped with the next version
ago FS and then and the separate fix is
using a base 46 specifically for those
EDD 255 19 keys so IP NS websites would
fit in a single label and would get a
TLS cert and I linked discussion
proposed by Peter on if we end up in
this situation we have base 52 for
regular C IDs and we get base 46 for
those elliptic curve key is used for IP
NS publishing so the question was maybe
we should switch everything to base 46
and that's still an open question we'll
probably have a separate disk design
discussion with stakeholders this and or
next week but I just wanted to mention
it here if anyone is interested please
comment on this issue problems will
arise anyway from base 36 we need to add
support to dots across the ecosystem it
will land in the next version of go IP
affairs and Jessica fest but you'll take
at least like one or two release cycles
until our ecosystem is capable of
recognizing this new encoding which is
not that popular
like base 52 was much more popular and
it still was pretty hard to get
supported everywhere and there are still
like some libraries like the Java HDPE
library which I looked at today which
does not support base 52 so we may need
to think about ensuring all encoding is
used in the world at least the default
or like default candidates our supported
after the box
so that's this problem space and sort of
where we are right now I think the
action item here if anyone is interested
is to comment on the base 46 by default
in all contexts and I just want to
highlight that like paste 42 are those
see IDs that start with Buffy like that
they start with B but the rest is
usually the same and the base 46 gives
us CA DS which start with k2 which is
also cool yeah so that's it mechanic
hope hopefully it was useful to a bit of
information
any questions is there any compatibility
concern okay well every single one of
our existing clients library its URLs
and addresses all need to be so it's
actually not it's it's a hard question
because depends what you mean by
compatibility so that's the CID is the
content identifier and the identifiers
used in IP FS have text representation
and they have like the byte
representation on the wire so here we
don't talk about changing the bytes
representation so all like the
networking lit b2b stuff everything on
the wire and programmatic interfaces
that will continue to work and will
remain backwards compatible the problem
is the tech
representation because when we create a
text representation we add base prefix
so when you convert from a text
representation to the binary
representation you withdraw you drop the
prefix and the problem disappears but
the problem here is if someone takes
that text and input it's in an
application which talks Li p2p or talks
ipfs but does not support that specific
base encoding that's the compatibility
problem we need to like address before
so basically well almost exclusively
only user facing places where the CID or
address might be used yeah or output in
the console like in UNIX if you like
write scripts programs that operate on
text yeah yeah I have a question as I or
I guess check assumption and the
question I assume that main reason is to
have a origin separation between things
so for subdomain gateways for the change
of the CID used in the subdomain from
base 42 to base 36 the the reason is we
want to fit in a single label I know I
get it so I guess let me first
I think switching from footing CID
after the slash and now moving it to the
sub-region is mostly to get a separate
content separation is that okay is there
a reason why this could not be hidden
away from the end user thing like what
I'm imagining gateways could do the
internal ready Rex but all the credit
bureaus might still reflect older way of
doing it so so this discussion wouldn't
be happening like I'm concerned like you
might get the same URL but including in
different ways and some of them might
work and some of them may not work and
we'll just create a very confusing
situation yeah I totally agree what our
subdomain gateways do right now if you
use a subdomain gateways such as D web
link and you put ipfs paths or D web
link / IP FS and C ID and that's the ID
no matter in which encoding you put it
there our subdomain gateway will
automatically normalize that CID -
subdomain safe version and redirect you
to a subdomain and if you use ipfs
companion companion takes advantage of
that and redirect you to that root r
which automatically converts but the
problem is user ends up on some sub
domain and it that sub domain there is
that CID and user may either copy that
link and open it in companion or some
other tool which understands ipfs but
does not understand that see ad encoding
or they may copy just the cid because
they know oh this is a Content
identifier and I can like to simply take
it and paste it in ipfs Cape capable
application and it will just fetch the
content so does that then the gap yeah
so this is kind of what I was wondering
I did something similar in the
experimentation that I've been doing
before and I think one thing that worked
well there are some issues that I'm
overlooking is to have the top level
navigation we give the URL just for the
end user browser whenever it's all to
navigation you can just navigate to the
iframe that internally do the thing
which pretty much takes a whole UI space
and you wind up with the result where it
looks like say URLs that you typed with
slash I could have slash cid but
internally it will be still origin
separated because the thing everything
will actually be loaded under I I'm I
don't want to take up too much time
maybe this is something worth talking
about in the future somewhere else I
like that's one way of addressing the
problem
it has a complexity it's no longer just
returning the payload right and and we
may revisit it when we have no choice
for longer series but I've I don't think
we will do use like iframe hack for now
on subdomains people just expect actual
HDPE pile out without any like framing
yeah but you can actually be smart
because when you get a request you can
tell whether it's think so if you curl
for instance you could actually the
right direct but if you loading from the
browser you could just and yeah yeah
actually we do something similar right
now in subdomains so if you ask
subdomain for a path using non web
browser user agent which does not follow
redirects you still get the payload
response but we add like clear cache
that to avoid situation when there's
like origin leakage
yeah definitely it's it's yet another
option we may consider
[Music]
all right maybe Li p2p upcoming work
guys
maybe so yeah in libel to be side of
things so first Jacob push the button
was trick and we released 0.28 release
candidate and we hope that we get the
final release this week so it is
basically we last week we think about
coming work that we expect whether in
Lippitt appeal for the upcoming weeks
and I will probably share my screen okay
are you saying my chrome yep yep
okay so first in the 0.29 release we we
are working on shipping three main
things which are the signal signal
ensign pure hacker trendabl protocol in
the gossip Selvi 1.1 basically the sign
peer records it's needed posts for
gossip servant for Geneva Protocol and
specifically to the browser context it's
mostly the Hannibal protocol and so this
Phillies will be focused on possibly be
hardened and improve the browser
experience in the field of food protocol
I already started implementing its so I
have appeared with an initial there are
some things that it doesn't get some
like test parameters that do access
stuff but in general we are in a good
way to on the handle side of things and
it is basically the all the milestones
that we expect to work on during the
Geneva work and then for the after this
for the 0.30
we are planning on working on improving
the connection manager which from until
now it's really basic implementation and
we want to as also a thing that we need
to improve in the
we want to really focus when Jill is on
the connection manager and yeah that's
its I know if anyone has any questions I
got sort of tangential question if
someone asks me today what's the best we
can do for connectivity in a web browser
what is a better advice to tell people
to stay on that older version of the p2p
and Jays ipfs before the refactor which
still has WebSocket star or is one of
existing intermediate options better I
think the ideal recommendation would be
to update to the newest version use the
web RTC star
unless WebRTC it's a problem for the
project because basically the amount of
versions that people get behind will be
each time more difficult and complex to
upgrade and I would say that WebRTC
should work for everyone why I've been
answering some issues and I know that
there are people having problems with
WebRTC star when using pipiens and other
kind of stuff and so for that specific
use case maybe it would be better for
people to wait but I would hopefully
want people to update sooner rather than
later but yeah like we are now we're
starting to work on the 0.29 so I think
will not take much longer until we have
a better solution for our users in the
browser yeah some of the stuff we should
do this part of 29 when we land
rendezvous is because we will also need
to spin up some rendezvous servers for
that um go is also potentially looking
at implementing rendezvous for different
reasons so we may be able to leverage
some servers there but I think we also
need to couple which
couple that with some just generic would
be TP nodes running as relay servers and
get those up to really replace like
WebSocket star so that we also then have
web RTC star and then rendezvous with
relay which is kind of a more reliable
direction that we're looking to go so I
think making sure that we coordinate all
that for o29 with infra will be
important
yeah I added in the mast on just for the
deployment part so I think I'm tracking
that we do that for sure
all right we are at the end of our
agenda but we have some spare time so I
will quickly go over highlights and in
the meantime you can add any ad hoc
topics you want to discuss if not will
free up some time off so there's been
two releases of companion stable
includes changes from the better so I
will just quickly mention that IPAs
companion 2 point wealth landed in
includes previously mentioned revamp of
preferences screen by Jessica and it
also includes turkish translation bunch
of fixes and opening ipfs that eth works
so I'm not sure I don't have no training
at the moment but if you enter IDF as
that ETH that will fail because it's not
the real TLD however that TLD however
companion is able to recover from DNS
errors now
so if DNS fails companion checks if
DFS is able to resolve DNS link for ETH
we have a special logic which uses eth /
dns gateway and dns link is detected and
companion is able to recover and open
that website from a local nodes in the
same tab so all that stuff happens
behind the scenes and if you enter IP FS
that that eth in the address bar it will
just open so that's an interesting side
effect of contribution we received to do
the recovery in the same tab it also
improved UX of ENS websites and I made a
quick release of
do I mostly to squeeze it in to go ipfs
but also to not fall behind with all the
other projects new files progress
feedback for buy raffle so when you
import files you you don't forget what
you imported some ux improvement for you
windows users when you need to set up
course headers in your local node and
catalan language added thank you to
everyone who contributes translations to
ipfs translation project i know we not
always are super fast in shipping those
translations but don't worry they are
not lost
we just we try to bump translations
before every release sometimes we need
to skip one release for technical
reasons but eventually those contributed
translations will get to our projects
I'm at the end of my teleprompter so
unless you have any questions to
releases or any ad hoc topics I will
make 30 seconds of uncomfortable silence
and then I will end the meeting so think
twice
you
we need to do a like 30 seconds actually
all right so good thinking yeah I
thought at least three times all right
so see you in two weeks
thanks so much for joining I